


Explain the CUTOFF methodology


A description of the parameters used.
We go for IPCC 2013 Impact assessment, ALWAYS. #fuck characterization factors.


%% TEXT:

Although the initial modeling contemplated specific sources of plastic streams. The availability of data obliged to simply the calculation to the ones coming from 100% polyethylene. This is considered valid on the premise that local conditions resemble those of described material recovery facilities, and further expose the plastic stream coming a single source.

In the model, meanwhile the initial point is consider waste polyethylene market. This emission are found to be similar quite similar from the sorting treatment process.

Regarding transportation, is was found from early descriptions of the process that the total distances across different product systems were very similar (280 km of both chemical and mechanical recycling). Therefore, transportation was crossed out for both systems. Particularly in this case it is considered to be beneficial given the contrasting ambition of this LCA. Distances, use phases, etc. seemed blaaa...

Landfill of the ash is considered, but even that is planned so change

Meanwhile we are trying best, the pyrolisis process still lack quite some smaller emitters. Only the very most important are bein taken into account and lleaves space to being somewhat unjust to mechanical



TODO:

So por ejemplo el lorry, podriamos necesitar de la proporcion necesaria para contruir un lorry entero... pero obvio no




Steam crackers are used to produce short olefins from naphtha. The feed stream is diluted with steam and then led through a furnace, where it is heated to a high temperature (around 850 °C) for a very short time (milliseconds). Temperature and residence time define the different yields of products. A cracker can be broken down into three separate sections: pyrolysis, primary fractionation/compression and product fractionation. The product stream leaving the cracking furnace is quenched to prevent further reactions.  The background system is addressed as follows:  Electricity, Thermal energy: The electricity (and thermal energy as by-product) used is modelled according to the individual country-specific situation. The country-specific modelling is achieved on multiple levels. Firstly the individual power plants in service are modelled according to the current national grid. This includes net losses and imported electricity. Second, the national emission and efficiency standards of the power plants are modelled. Third, the country-specific fuel supply (share of resources used, by import and / or domestic supply) including the country-specific properties (e.g. element and energy contents) are accounted for. Fourth, the import, transport, mining and exploration processes for the energy carrier supply chain are modelled according to the specific situation of each power-producing country. The different mining and exploration techniques (emissions and efficiencies) in the different exploration countries are accounted for according to current engineering knowledge and information.  Steam: The steam supply is modelled according to the individual country-specific situation with regard to the technology efficiencies and energy carriers used. Efficiencies range from 84% to 94% in relation to the representative energy carrier (gas, oil, coal). Coal, crude oil and natural gas used for the generation of steam are modelled according to the specific import situation (see electricity).  Transports: All relevant and known transport processes used are included. Overseas transport including rail and truck transport to and from major ports for imported bulk resources are included. Furthermore all relevant and known pipeline and / or tanker transport of gases and oil imports are included.   Energy carriers: Coal, crude oil, natural gas and uranium are modelled according to the specific import situation (see electricity).  Refinery products: Diesel, gasoline, technical gases, fuel oils, basic oils and residues such as bitumen are modelled via a country-specific, refinery parameterized model. The refinery model represents the current national standard in refinery techniques (e.g. emission level, internal energy consumption,...) as well as the individual country-specific product output spectrum, which can be quite different from country to country. Hence the refinery products used show the individual country-specific use of resources. The supply of crude oil is modelled, again, according to the country-specific crude oil situation with the respective properties of the resources.


The data set represents an average European waste-to-energy plant (WtE) for the thermal treatment of municipal solid waste (MSW) with typical technology used in Europe to meet the legal requirements. Environmental impacts for waste collection, transport or any pretreatment of the waste are not included in the data set. Two different incineration models one with a wet and one with a dry flue gas treatment (FGT) and different NOx-removal technologies are mixed to represent the appliance of the different FGT systems in Europe. According to data published in the BREF document "Waste Incineration" of the European Commission (2006) two-thirds of the MSW is treated within a plant operating with a dry FGT and one-third of the MSW is incinerated within a plant with a wet FGT. For the NOX reduction a share of two-third SNCR (Selective Non-Catalytic Reduction) and one-third SCR (Selective Catalytic Reduction) is used. The plant consists of an incineration line fitted with a grate and a steam generator. The average efficiency of the steam production is about 81.9%. Produced steam is used internally as process-steam and the balance is used to generate electricity or exported as heat to industry or households. An energy balance for the plant was made using data from the "CEWEP Energy Report" (2006) representing 97 waste-to energy plants in Europe. Beside one 1t of MSW with a lower calorific value of approximately 10 GJ/t electricity (0.06 GJ/t of MSW) as well as fuels and heat (0.22 GJ/t of MSW) are imported. 1.09 GJ electricity and 3.16 GJ thermal energy per ton of threaten MSW are distributed to the grid and industrial customers. The effective exported electricity is reduced by 7% due to grid losses (European average). All utilities used in the waste incineration plant, the operation of the underground deposit and the landfill for bottom ash and air pollution control (APC) residues as well as the meltdown processes for the recovered metals are included in the system. Dry FGT: The flue gas treatment system uses a dry technology with adsorbent and a SNCR system for NOx-reduction. The NOx reducing agent ammonia is directly injected into the furnace and reacts with the NOx to nitrogen and water. The flue gas is conditioned, adsorbents added and filtered with fabric filters. Lime milk and small parts of hearth furnace coke are used as adsorbents; a part of the adsorbents is re-circulated. The fly ash together with the adsorbent is mixed together with the boiler ash (treatment of APC residues see below). Wet FGT: The flue gas treatment system uses a pre-dusting stage and an additional downstream deduster both fabric filters and wet scrubbers to clean the flue gas. After leaving the pre-dedusting stage used to reduce the dust load before the wet scrubbers, the flue gas is feed into the water of the first wet scrubber. Mainly HF and HCl are removed in the first stage. The deposition of sulphur dioxide in the very acid medium of the first stage (pH 0-1) is low and requires a second wet scrubber to remove SO2. Lime milk, hearth furnace coke and trass are used as adsorbents in the filters and scrubbers. The wet scrubbers are operated waste water free. A purification of the brine from the first scrubber to hydrochloric acid and the sulphate slurry from the second scrubber to gypsum is not done. All residues are treated together as APC residues (see below). As final treatment stage the flue gas passes a SCR system to reduce NOx. Due to the quenching of the flue gas in the wet scrubber and the temperature requirements of the SCR catalyst the flue gas has to be reheated. Emissions: For the emissions HCl, HF, NOx, VOC, N2O, CO, NH3, SO2, dust, dioxin and the heavy metals As, Cd, Co, Cr, Ni and Pb mean emission values per cubic meter of cleaned flue gas published in the BREF document "Waste Incineration" of the European Commission are used. Due to the wide range of emissions for some elements and substances the mathematical mean values are adjusted with additional real plant data. The emission of all other elements and the distribution of all elements and substances into the different residues are calculated by means of transfer coefficients (see model description below). Treatment of residues: The bottom ash approximately 220kg/t of MSW (approximately 195 kg/t of MSW without metals) is quenched, metals (Fe, Al, Cu, Zn and Pb) are recovered (the recovered Fe represents 10%, the Al 1% and Cu, Zn and Pb 0.6% of the bottom ash) and a three month ageing process is done to stabilize the bottom ash. 60% of the produced bottom ash after metal recovery and ageing is reused as construction material (and will leave the system as bottom ash for reuse). The remaining 40% are disposed on a landfill. To consider the transfer of elements of the bottom ash into ground water, water bodies or air leachate tests for bottom ash and standard leakage rates for landfills are used. According to the current situation in Europe APC residues (42kg/t of MSW) including boiler ash, filter cake and slurries are disposed in salt mines (43%) or landfills (57%). The disposal in salt mines without free water and contact to ground water reservoirs was modelled as emission free. The operation of the underground deposit is included. The landfill was modelled similar to the bottom ash using leachate test data for APC residues. Transports for bottom ash and APC residues independent of the different routes are considered. To include the export of electricity, heat and metals within the data set a system expansion was used. To calculate the credits for the metal recovery standard metal production data sets of the GaBI 4 Software were used. To obtain the same metal quality like the used data sets for the crediting the scrap has to be remelted and processed. The environmental burdens for the remelting and processing are taken into account in the system boundaries. For electricity and heat export the EU 27 Electricity Mix 2002 (32% nuclear, 19% hard coal, 17% natural gas, 11% lignite, 10% hydro, 6% fuel oil, 5% other) and an EU 27 District Heating Mix 2002 (40% Natural gas, 34% hard coal, 10% Biomass, 7% lignite, 6% fuel oil, 3% peat) are used for the credit calculation.
